大家好我是刘耀华。是下学期“应用抽象代数”的助教，在这门课程中我们会介绍quiver及其表示，以下是Iryna Kashuba教授写给大家的课程介绍：

In this course we aim to introduce the representation theory of finite-dimensional algebras through quivers and their representations. The use of quivers gives the possibility to visualize the modules of a given algebra very concretely as a collection of matrices, each of which is associated to an arrow in a certain diagram To every quiver one can associate the path algebra, whose elements are finite sums of path in the quiver and those multiplication is given as concatenation of paths. The modules of the path algebra correspond precisely to the representations of the quiver. So basically almost everything you want to know about representations of original algebra can be learned from studying path algebra, which is much easier since path algebras are basic, meaning all simple modules are one-dimensional. And many things can be done combinatorially.
Also it turns out that with quivers we can treat abelian categories in the same way as we treat an algebra, using irreducible maps. There is a combinatorial gadget called Auslander-Reiten quiver, where vertices are in correspondence with indecomposable modules and arrows are given by irreducible maps. Then we visualise the category of modules with a certain form of quivers. Surprisingly the form of quiver appearing in this construction follows Dynkin classification.
I will name another two applications of quivers and their representations to show vast use of this theory (we will not cover it in the course). One of the most exciting developments in representation theory in the last three decades is the cluster theory introduced by Fomin and Zelevinsky. The central objects of the theory are cluster algebras and it turns out that one can use an operation on quivers called a quiver mutation to substitute basis elements of the cluster algebra. Next researchers categorified this setting (which is just an incarnation of the Auslander-Reiten quiver theory) and found out that one can use the derived category of the module category of the path algebra to study properties of cluster algebra. The second development arose from a certain action of a general linear group on the quiver corresponding to path algebra. Nakajima extended this idea and developed a whole new approach for doing representation theory via geometric methods, using the so-called Nakajima quiver variety.

下学期Vyacheslav Futorny教授会组织一个关于李代数及其表示的讨论班，我也是讨论班的主持人。下学期有一门李理论课程，由Efilm Zelmanov教授授课。 经过与两位教授的讨论，我们打算把这个讨论班做成“李理论课的workshop”的形式： 在本讨论班上，对李理论课上的内容进行总结和延展。（当然，没有参加或者没有选上Zelmanov教授课的同学也欢迎来参加讨论班）。感兴趣的同学可以添加我的qq好友，我会组织qq群。关于讨论班形式，内容，上课时间，我们可以一起商讨

注： 我同时也是上文中介绍quiver 及其表示的“applied abstract algebra”的助教，也请对这门课感兴趣的同学添加我的qq.

qq号： 3067173925 

添加请备注： 姓名+年级+哪门课，例如：张三+大一+应用抽象代数